OSDOCS-10894:adds troubleshooting to ANP (#77463)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-ovn-k-anp-nbctl.adoc

ovnkube-node-h4fpx                       8/8     Running   0          33m   10.0.0.5     ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-master-0         <none>           <none>
ovnkube-node-j4hzw                       8/8     Running   0          24m   10.0.128.2   ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-worker-a-hzbh5   <none>           <none>
ovnkube-node-wdhgv                       8/8     Running   0          33m   10.0.0.3     ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-master-1         <none>           <none>
ovnkube-node-wfncn                       8/8     Running   0          24m   10.0.128.3   ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-worker-b-5bb7f   <none>           <none>
----

. Navigate into a pod to look at the northbound database by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc rsh -c nbdb -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes ovnkube-node-524dt
----
+
. Run the following command to look at the `nbdb.ACL`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ovn-nbctl find ACL 'external_ids{>=}{"k8s.ovn.org/owner-type"=AdminNetworkPolicy,"k8s.ovn.org/name"=cluster-control}'
----
+
where::
cluster-control:: Specifies the name of the `AdminNetworkPolicy` you are troubleshooting.

> AdminNetworkPolicy:: Specifies the type: `AdminNetworkPolicy` or `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy`.

Reviewer: Doing another round of review, I see that this element uses example names while the next steps uses placeholders like `<anp_name>`. It would be best to have this consistent.

So it is best to replace `cluster-control` with `<anp_name>` and `AdminNetworkPolicy` with a `<kind>` placeholder.

Author: updated

//module included in the following assemblies:
//
//networking/network_security/AdminNetworkPolicy/nw-ovn-k-anp-troubleshooting.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="metrics-commands-anp_{context}"]
== Using nbctl commands for ANP and BANP

> To look at OVN Northbound database (nbdb) objects which include the `ACL` and `AdressSet`, you need to be inside the pod on that node to see what objects are in the node.

Reviewer 2: ugh stale review, dismiss this comment

//module included in the following assemblies:
//
//networking/network_security/AdminNetworkPolicy/nw-ovn-k-anp-troubleshooting.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="metrics-commands-anp_{context}"]
== Using nbctl commands for ANP and BANP

> To troubleshoot an unsuccessful setup, start by looking at OVN Northbound database (nbdb) objects which include the `ACL`, `AdressSet`, and `Port_Group`. To view thee nbdb, you need to be inside the pod on that node to see what objects are in the node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To troubleshoot an unsuccessful setup, start by looking at OVN Northbound database (nbdb) objects including `ACL`, `AdressSet`, and `Port_Group`. To view the nbdb, you need to be inside the pod on that node to see what objects are in the node.
```
The second sentence reads funky to me because you tell users to "view" the ndbd, but then to "see" what objects are in the node. Seems that only one "view" or "see" is needed, but I am not sure how to rephrase. I'll leave that to you. It is also fine as is, I was just thinking.

Author: missing the word database.

.Prerequisites

* Access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* The OpenShift CLI (`oc`) installed.

[NOTE]
====

> To run ovn `nbctl` commands in a cluster you must open a remote shell into the `nbdb`on the relevant node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To run ovn `nbctl` commands in a cluster, you must open a remote shell into the `nbdb` on the relevant node.
```
I think a comma should go there. Also should it be OVN `nbctl` or `ovn nbctl`?

ovnkube-control-plane-5c95487779-v2xn8   2/2     Running   0          34m   10.0.0.3     ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-master-1         <none>           <none>
ovnkube-node-524dt                       8/8     Running   0          33m   10.0.0.4     ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-master-2         <none>           <none>
ovnkube-node-gbwr9                       8/8     Running   0          24m   10.0.128.4   ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-worker-c-s9gqt   <none>           <none>
ovnkube-node-h4fpx                       8/8     Running   0          33m   10.0.0.5     ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-master-0         <none>           <none>
ovnkube-node-j4hzw                       8/8     Running   0          24m   10.0.128.2   ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-worker-a-hzbh5   <none>           <none>
ovnkube-node-wdhgv                       8/8     Running   0          33m   10.0.0.3     ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-master-1         <none>           <none>
ovnkube-node-wfncn                       8/8     Running   0          24m   10.0.128.3   ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-worker-b-5bb7f   <none>           <none>
----

> . Navigate into a pod to look at the northbound database by running the following command:

Reviewer 4: Why this specific ovnkube-node pod?

Author: No reason, I just picked one at random

Reviewer 4: it is OK to pick any ovnkube-node, checked it on live cluster.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc rsh -c nbdb -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes ovnkube-node-524dt
----
+

> . Run the following command to look at the `nbdb.ACL`:

Author: We don't do NBDB; we do nbdb.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ovn-nbctl find ACL 'external_ids{>=}{"k8s.ovn.org/owner-type"=AdminNetworkPolicy,"k8s.ovn.org/name"=cluster-control}'
----

> +

Reviewer 4: Alternatively use the form
<pre>
oc rsh -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes exec -it ovnkube-node-524dt -- ovn-nbctl find ACL 'external_ids{>=}{"k8s.ovn.org/owner-type"=AdminNetworkPolicy,"k8s.ovn.org/name"=cluster-control}'
</pre>

Author: since we use the ovn-nbctl in the netpol I'm just going to keep this as is. I do understand that this works as well.

label               : 0
log                 : false
match               : "inport == @a14645450421485494999 && ((ip4.dst == $a13517855690389298082)) && udp && udp.dst==5353"
meter               : acl-logging
name                : "ANP:cluster-control:Egress:0"
options             : {apply-after-lb="true"}
priority            : 26600
severity            : []
tier                : 1

_uuid               : d14ed5cf-2e06-496e-8cae-6b76d5dd5ccd
action              : allow-related
direction           : to-lport
external_ids        : {direction=Ingress, gress-index="0", "k8s.ovn.org/id"="default-network-controller:AdminNetworkPolicy:cluster-control:Ingress:0:None", "k8s.ovn.org/name"=cluster-control, "k8s.ovn.org/owner-controller"=default-network-controller, "k8s.ovn.org/owner-type"=AdminNetworkPolicy, port-policy-protocol=None}
label               : 0
log                 : false
match               : "outport == @a14645450421485494999 && ((ip4.src == $a14545668191619617708))"
meter               : acl-logging
name                : "ANP:cluster-control:Ingress:0"
options             : {}
priority            : 26600
severity            : []
tier                : 1

----
====
+
[NOTE]
====

> The outputs for ingress and egress show you the logic of the policy in the ACL. For example, every time a packet matches the provided `match` the `action` is taken. See ""

Reviewer 3: Is there supposed to be something in the quotations after "see"?

Author: nope

====

.. Examine the specific rule of your policy by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ovn-nbctl find ACL 'external_ids{>=}{"k8s.ovn.org/owner-type"=AdminNetworkPolicy,direction=Egress,"k8s.ovn.org/name"=cluster-control,gress-index="5"}'
----
+
--
Where::
+
`cluster-control`:: Specifies the `name` of your ANP.
+
`Egress`:: Specifies the `direction` of traffic either of type `Ingress` or `Egress`.
+
`5`:: Specifies the rule you want to look at.
--
+
For the example ANP named `cluster-control` at `priority` `34`, the following is an example output for `Egress` `rule` 5:
+

> .Example output

Reviewer 4: Example mismatch. The ACL below does not look like for Egress rule

Author: @palonsoro

Reviewer: It is. Can you please adjust the command to be like this?
```
ovn-nbctl find ACL 'external_ids{>=}{"k8s.ovn.org/owner-type"=AdminNetworkPolicy,direction=Ingress,"k8s.ovn.org/name"=cluster-control,gress-index="1"}'
```

and also adjust the explanation?

Reviewer: It now looks correct

//module included in the following assemblies:
//
//networking/network_security/AdminNetworkPolicy/nw-ovn-k-anp-troubleshooting.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="metrics-commands-anp_{context}"]
== Using nbctl commands for ANP and BANP

> To troubleshoot an unsuccessful setup, start by looking at OVN Northbound database (nbdb) objects which include the `ACL` and `AdressSet`. To view thee nbdb, you need to be inside the pod on that node to see what objects are in the node.

Reviewer: Shouldn't we include also how to get the port groups, as in the [upstream docs](https://github.com/ovn-org/ovn-kubernetes/pull/4431)?

cc @tssurya

Reviewer 2: yes we must

      - 10.0.69.0/24
    - namespaces: # open tenants
        matchLabels:
          tenant: open
  - name: "pass-to-restricted-tenants" # rule4
    action: "Pass"
    to:
    - namespaces: # restricted tenants
        matchLabels:
          tenant: restricted
  - name: "default-deny"
    action: "Deny"
    to:
    - networks:
      - 0.0.0.0/0
----
====

.Procedure

. List pods by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get po -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
ovnkube-control-plane-5c95487779-8k9fd   2/2     Running   0          33m
ovnkube-control-plane-5c95487779-v2xn8   2/2     Running   0          33m
ovnkube-node-524dt                       8/8     Running   0          33m
ovnkube-node-gbwr9                       8/8     Running   0          24m
ovnkube-node-h4fpx                       8/8     Running   0          33m
ovnkube-node-j4hzw                       8/8     Running   0          24m
ovnkube-node-wdhgv                       8/8     Running   0          33m
ovnkube-node-wfncn                       8/8     Running   0          24m
----

> . Optional: To list the pods with node information, run the following command:

Reviewer: I'd remove step 1 and make this one non-optional, i.e. just ask the customer to always provide the output with node information.

Reason: Most of the times you troubleshoot something, you do it because you have problems on a node and you look for the ovnkube-node-XXXX pod of that node, so 99% of the times you want the pods with node information, so we can also keep the doc a bit shorter.

Author: done

ovnkube-node-gbwr9                       8/8     Running   0          24m   10.0.128.4   ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-worker-c-s9gqt   <none>           <none>
ovnkube-node-h4fpx                       8/8     Running   0          33m   10.0.0.5     ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-master-0         <none>           <none>
ovnkube-node-j4hzw                       8/8     Running   0          24m   10.0.128.2   ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-worker-a-hzbh5   <none>           <none>
ovnkube-node-wdhgv                       8/8     Running   0          33m   10.0.0.3     ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-master-1         <none>           <none>
ovnkube-node-wfncn                       8/8     Running   0          24m   10.0.128.3   ci-ln-0tv5gg2-72292-6sjw5-worker-b-5bb7f   <none>           <none>
----

. Navigate into a pod to look at the northbound database by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc rsh -c nbdb -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes ovnkube-node-524dt
----
+
. Run the following command to look at the `nbdb.ACL`:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ ovn-nbctl list acl

Reviewer: Listing ACLs on a big node (or, better said, in a node which is not small) can be a too big output. Most of the times you want to grep (or use `ovn-nbctl find` like in the latest [comments I made on the upstream docs](https://github.com/ovn-org/ovn-kubernetes/pull/4431#discussion_r1644619505)

Reviewer 2: agreed :) list will be noise

Author: agreed, I'll add.

priority            : 26596
severity            : []
tier                : 1

_uuid               : 924b81fd-65cc-494b-9c29-0c5287d69bb1
action              : drop
direction           : from-lport
external_ids        : {direction=Egress, gress-index="5", "k8s.ovn.org/id"="default-network-controller:AdminNetworkPolicy:cluster-control:Egress:5:None", "k8s.ovn.org/name"=cluster-control, "k8s.ovn.org/owner-controller"=default-network-controller, "k8s.ovn.org/owner-type"=AdminNetworkPolicy, port-policy-protocol=None}
label               : 0
log                 : false
match               : "inport == @a14645450421485494999 && ((ip4.dst == $a11452480169090787059))"
meter               : acl-logging
name                : "ANP:cluster-control:Egress:5"
options             : {apply-after-lb="true"}
priority            : 26595
severity            : []
tier                : 1
----
====
+
[NOTE]
====
The outputs for ingress and egress show you the logic of the policy in the ACL. For example, every time a packet matches the provided `match` the `action` is taken. See ""
====

. Run the following command to look at the `nbdb.AdressSet`:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ ovn-nbctl list address-set

Reviewer: Same than what I said for listing all the ACLs.

name                : a10622494091691694581

_uuid               : 77554661-34c7-4d24-82e2-819c9be98e55
addresses           : ["10.244.1.3", "10.244.2.7"]
external_ids        : {direction=Egress, gress-index="4", ip-family=v4, "k8s.ovn.org/id"="default-network-controller:AdminNetworkPolicy:cluster-control:Egress:4:v4", "k8s.ovn.org/name"=cluster-control, "k8s.ovn.org/owner-controller"=default-network-controller, "k8s.ovn.org/owner-type"=AdminNetworkPolicy}
name                : a5972452606168369118

_uuid               : c8b87fe8-dd6c-4ef3-8cea-e7ea8a5bdb3d
addresses           : ["0.0.0.0/0"]
external_ids        : {direction=Egress, gress-index="5", ip-family=v4, "k8s.ovn.org/id"="default-network-controller:AdminNetworkPolicy:cluster-control:Egress:5:v4", "k8s.ovn.org/name"=cluster-control, "k8s.ovn.org/owner-controller"=default-network-controller, "k8s.ovn.org/owner-type"=AdminNetworkPolicy}
name                : a11452480169090787059
----
====

To troubleshoot a specific policy and rule for that ANP, follow these steps:

. Examine the ACL list for that policy by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ ovn-nbctl list acl | grep <policy_name>

Reviewer: As [commented upstream](https://github.com/ovn-org/ovn-kubernetes/pull/4431#discussion_r1644619505), using `ovn-nbctl find` like in the comment might work better. But it might be wise if we do the same than the upstream docs does, for consistency.

----

. Examine the specific rule with your policy by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ ovn-nbctl list acl | grep <anp_name>:<direction>:<rule_number>

Reviewer: I also made another [suggestion upstream](https://github.com/ovn-org/ovn-kubernetes/pull/4431/files#r1646486961) regarding this.

----
+
Where::
+
`anp_name`:: Specifies the name of your ANP.
`direction`:: Specifies the direction of traffic either `Ingress` or `Egress`.
`rule_number`:: Specifies the rule you wish to look at.
+
For the example ANP named `cluster-control` at `priority` `34`, the following is an example output for `Egress` `rule` 5:
+
. Example output
[source,terminal]
----
_uuid               : 924b81fd-65cc-494b-9c29-0c5287d69bb1
action              : drop
direction           : from-lport
external_ids        : {direction=Egress, gress-index="5", "k8s.ovn.org/id"="default-network-controller:AdminNetworkPolicy:cluster-control:Egress:5:None", "k8s.ovn.org/name"=cluster-control, "k8s.ovn.org/owner-controller"=default-network-controller, "k8s.ovn.org/owner-type"=AdminNetworkPolicy, port-policy-protocol=None}
label               : 0
log                 : false
match               : "inport == @a14645450421485494999 && ((ip4.dst == $a11452480169090787059))"
meter               : acl-logging
name                : "ANP:cluster-control:Egress:5"
options             : {apply-after-lb="true"}
priority            : 26595
severity            : []
tier                : 1

> ----

Reviewer: This output would be possible only if you removed `grep` as per my suggestion from upstream above. With grep, you would need some `-A`, `-B` or `-C` parameters to get this output.
